Okay.
NOTE CONF
Good afternoon and welcome to week five.
Can't believe it's already nearly halfway through the semester.
NOTE CONF
Are you all right?
Okay, so today we are going to talk about integrals.
NOTE CONF
Um, just for a very quick show of hands.
Oh my God.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
How many people.
NOTE CONF
How many of you know what is an integral.
Oh.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So nobody else.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So today we just give a quick introduction to what
NOTE CONF
are integrals and what are properties of integrals?
We as usual, we will have a couple of slides
NOTE CONF
with things which are important in the chapter that we
have read.
NOTE CONF
But please remember that this is not going to cover
the material of the chapter, right?
NOTE CONF
These are just 3 or 4 points which I think
that are important to remember.
NOTE CONF
And I know the students sometimes, sometimes don't think about
when they do exercises with integrals.
NOTE CONF
So let's have a look.
And then we will do our quizzes as usual.
NOTE CONF
So.
The first thing that was so the integrals came about
NOTE CONF
because in some sense mathematicians want wanted to calculate the
area between a curve and the x axis limited by
NOTE CONF
two points.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So this was an approximation idea that there were no
kind of ways of thinking about this before.
NOTE CONF
And some mathematicians talk.
Okay, what about if I use an approximation method?
NOTE CONF
You will have seen in your book that we can
approximate some area from the bottom and from the top,
NOTE CONF
so overshooting and undershooting and then the limit is the
integral.
NOTE CONF
In the next lecture on Thursday we will see one
of these approximation methods that were used, which is the
NOTE CONF
Riemann sums, which is exactly what it does.
But this is how integrals came about.
NOTE CONF
Um, integrals are.
A linear operator just as much as the derivative is.
NOTE CONF
What does it mean that they are linear operator work
that these two properties hold so that the sum of
NOTE CONF
integral.
So the integral of a sum is the sum of
NOTE CONF
the integrals.
And if I have a constant time, the integral of
NOTE CONF
a constant time function.
The integral of these functions is the constant time the
NOTE CONF
integral of the function.
So this is what it means to be a linear
NOTE CONF
operator, right?
So in mathematics we think about this saying that it
NOTE CONF
behave nicely.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So it doesn't do anything strange that we would not
want it to do.
NOTE CONF
So when we talk about integral we distinguish between definite
integral and indefinite integral.
NOTE CONF
So definite integral is the integral of a function between
two given points.
NOTE CONF
I've called them a and b here.
So an indefinite integral is an integral of a function
NOTE CONF
but not really defined in in which point.
The thing that sometimes students don't think about is that
NOTE CONF
when I calculate an indefinite integral, the outcome of the
calculation of the actual integral of the function is not
NOTE CONF
complete if I don't add the constant of integration.
Why?
NOTE CONF
I'm asking this question just in case somebody wanted to
answer.
NOTE CONF
Yes.
Essentially, you're.
NOTE CONF
Essentially, you're solving for a certain function, but there's whole
family functions that would, uh, make this relationship we're given.
NOTE CONF
True.
And so the unspecified constant is a way of, uh,
NOTE CONF
notating this entire family of functions, whereas missing off one
only gives a single function when there's more.
NOTE CONF
So what is the idea?
Think about the definite integral for a minute.
NOTE CONF
The definite integral.
You solve the integral, and then you actually go and
NOTE CONF
calculate the area under the curve between the two points
which are given, which are RMB.
NOTE CONF
If you calculate the indefinite integral that still is trying
to give you the area between two points, but the
NOTE CONF
points are not specified.
So as your colleague was saying, there is whole family
NOTE CONF
of functions that could give you the area under the
curve given two points where the curve is defined.
NOTE CONF
And this is why we put a concept of integration
T to indicate that that is a family of functions.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
What is the outcome of a definite integral?
NOTE CONF
What kind of mathematical object is the outcome of a
definite integral?
NOTE CONF
No takers.
What do I get at the end of whatever machinery
NOTE CONF
I use to calculate the definite integral?
Yep, exactly a number a value.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so this out comes from the definite and the
indefinite integrals.
NOTE CONF
They are different not only because they mean different things,
but they are really different mathematical objects, right?
NOTE CONF
The first one is a noun, but the second one
is a family of functions.
NOTE CONF
I think it's always kind of useful to have in
mind.
NOTE CONF
What are the things you're playing with when you do
mathematical operations?
NOTE CONF
What are the things you get on the other side?
Okay, so let me sort yourself out.
NOTE CONF
Um.
Can you see?
NOTE CONF
Oh, okay.
So if you want to log in into our session
NOTE CONF
today.
We can start, um, we can start with our with
NOTE CONF
our questions, as usual.
Please don't start responding.
NOTE CONF
Just log in to the session and then I'll obscure
the, um.
NOTE CONF
The screen is just.
It's just better.
NOTE CONF
I think, if you do it this way.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Oh, man.
Can you please stop voting for a minute?
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Man.
NOTE CONF
It's just.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
I'm going to call it.
Well, we leave this first one like this, and then
NOTE CONF
we'll cover up the replies for the future ones.
I'll give you another three minutes just to have a
NOTE CONF
look at what is the answer.
For.
NOTE CONF
All of.
Bye bye.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so let's have a look.
Why do we think?
NOTE CONF
Actually, let me grab the other mic.
Why do we think that that is true.
NOTE CONF
That.
Somebody could have voted for true.
NOTE CONF
Tell me what they think is true.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Because it's just the sum of all of the different.
Uh, it's a sum of in pieces, and the strings
NOTE CONF
been chopped into pieces.
So the whole sum is the whole string.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
So the mike wasn't great, but this is exactly the
NOTE CONF
right answer.
So I've chopped my string in n pieces.
NOTE CONF
So obviously the sum of these pieces will be the
length of the string.
NOTE CONF
So if I want to formalise this a little bit
by trying to use some of the appropriate mathematical language,
NOTE CONF
I would, I would say it it this way.
So that is my very poor representation of a piece
NOTE CONF
of string, I'm afraid, on the left hand side.
But on the right hand side, what do I say?
NOTE CONF
Well, this is an interval that goes from x0 to
x n and that length which is x n minus
NOTE CONF
x0.
Because we know how to calculate the length of segment
NOTE CONF
is exactly the sum of all the n pieces of
string I've chopped my string in.
NOTE CONF
So if you look, if you think for a moment
about what that sum looks like, if you had to
NOTE CONF
unpack all this delta x one, delta x two and
so on, you will find that at the end you
NOTE CONF
are left with the way that we know.
We calculate the length of a string which is x
NOTE CONF
n by minus x zero okay.
So this is like a first if you like thinking
NOTE CONF
about calculating lengths and areas by thinking about chopping things
into intervals and then seeing how we how we can
NOTE CONF
do the sum.
Of course, in the case of a string.
NOTE CONF
I don't need to do any approximation.
I know how to calculate length of pieces of string,
NOTE CONF
if you like.
Let's see.
NOTE CONF
Let's see another one.
Oops.
NOTE CONF
Ah, okay.
So wait, this is my question.
NOTE CONF
So take a minute to think about this.
And I will cover up.
NOTE CONF
The project.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So.
The.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So.
NOTE CONF
Let's.
Move on.
NOTE CONF
All.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Yes.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So not a lot of people have voted, so come
on.
NOTE CONF
Three more minutes.
Cool.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Thank you.
NOTE CONF
Thank you, thank you, thank you.
Thank.
NOTE CONF
You.
Thank.
NOTE CONF
You.
I think.
NOTE CONF
I mean.
Okay, let's have a think about our options here.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So why?
Um, so somebody that voted for the first option.
NOTE CONF
So the first option, say it doesn't really matter how
many sectors are the circle into somebody that said that
NOTE CONF
that question is right.
Can they tell me why they thought it was right?
NOTE CONF
That's a good question.
There is a lot more people in this room than
NOTE CONF
the 8% who voted that.
That is right, because there is a lot of people
NOTE CONF
that voted for all the possibilities to be correct.
So why is that right?
NOTE CONF
There are.
No takers.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, it's kind of the same thing as before.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
The equation that's given just does give the area off.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
So if you add all of the sectors together, you
NOTE CONF
get the area of the circle.
It's not really like an approximation thing where you have
NOTE CONF
to say that, um, it's the limit of an infinity,
but also b and C mean the same thing.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so what did we say here?
Obviously the first question is correct because it's exactly the
NOTE CONF
same exercise that we did before.
But this time I'm looking at cutting into bits an
NOTE CONF
angle rather than a piece of string.
So it doesn't really matter how many pieces I cut
NOTE CONF
this angle into the An will be.
Will be the same.
NOTE CONF
So basically that question is telling me that the the
measure of that angle doesn't change.
NOTE CONF
If I cut it in 10 in 10 angles or
20 angles or 30 angles, it's the same, exactly the
NOTE CONF
same thing that we said before.
What about the second one?
NOTE CONF
What do we think about the second one?
Why is the second one correct?
NOTE CONF
Anybody wants to.
Not.
NOTE CONF
Sure what to say.
So what do we need?
NOTE CONF
What do we think?
That's correct.
NOTE CONF
Come on.
Yep.
NOTE CONF
Excellent.
Um, if we know that, um, that that's true for
NOTE CONF
all n, then it's the limit will also still be
equal.
NOTE CONF
Yep.
Exactly.
NOTE CONF
So if I think in terms of, um, I don't
know how to say it of iteration of the technique
NOTE CONF
I had before.
I have ten, um, ten sectors, 26 or 30 sectors.
NOTE CONF
Whatever I go, I can go as far as I
want.
NOTE CONF
That will be the limit.
And what is three?
NOTE CONF
What is the third bit?
The third answer.
NOTE CONF
Well, you have it.
You have it there, right?
NOTE CONF
Who is that thumb?
I can write it as the integral between 0 and
NOTE CONF
2 pi of the area as, uh, in the delta.
So the third one is also correct.
NOTE CONF
So the correct answer was that these are all different
ways of thinking about how to use this type of
NOTE CONF
approximation, apart from the fact that, as your colleague said
before, in this case we are not really approximating in
NOTE CONF
this case, we have a formula to calculate these measures
that we're looking for, but I can express them in.
NOTE CONF
In sum of sectors, I can express them as a
limit.
NOTE CONF
I can express them as an integral.
This is all the same measure.
NOTE CONF
It is measuring always the same object and so all
the outcomes are the same.
NOTE CONF
It would be sad if I was measuring the same
object in different ways, and the outcomes were not the
NOTE CONF
same.
Okay, let's have a look at this one.
NOTE CONF
Is.
That all things.
NOTE CONF
That.
Are.
NOTE CONF
Thank you.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Is.
There anything?
NOTE CONF
Thank you.
Thanks for.
NOTE CONF
The call.
Okay, so I'm satisfied with the number of you who
NOTE CONF
have voted.
Let's see the answer.
NOTE CONF
So what do we think about this?
So you got it right.
NOTE CONF
Why did you think that this is sometimes.
Right.
NOTE CONF
That's right.
I'm pretty sure I'm wrong.
NOTE CONF
That's right.
Come on.
NOTE CONF
Um, so when you when you integrate a differentiable function,
it becomes the function before it got differentiated or integrated.
NOTE CONF
Um, so it would be f of t.
And I thought if it's saying it's equal to f
NOTE CONF
of x.
And that would only be true if the x was
NOTE CONF
the same as the T, or if both of them
were zero or f or zero.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Um, which would be sometimes, uh, yeah.
NOTE CONF
That's right.
Exactly.
NOTE CONF
So what's happening here?
This is definitely not always true.
NOTE CONF
But I can show you at least one case in
which it is true.
NOTE CONF
So it's not always wrong either.
What is that happens here?
NOTE CONF
So I'm trying to integrate this function missing in zero
and x.
NOTE CONF
So what mathematical objects do I expect to have from
an integration between zero and x.
NOTE CONF
So you've calculated this integral.
What do you get.
NOTE CONF
Well you can see that right as a function.
So even if we say that when I calculate the
NOTE CONF
integral, the definite integral that the outcome is usually a
number, it was a number in the example I showed
NOTE CONF
you before.
But I could replace one of the extremes of integration
NOTE CONF
with the variable, and in that case I would obtain
a function.
NOTE CONF
In this particular case, I just want to understand when
this function is equal of f of x.
NOTE CONF
And of course this is only true if f of
zero is equal to zero.
NOTE CONF
So be careful.
This is like a little bit of a logic point
NOTE CONF
here sometimes for the right question.
Because this is not always true, because f of zero
NOTE CONF
could be any other number, in which case it wouldn't
be f of x and is true sometimes.
NOTE CONF
So it's not never true.
Be careful when you do quizzes and think about, well,
NOTE CONF
actually the things that you are that you are asked
to do mean so never would mean never, so that
NOTE CONF
you cannot produce a case for which this is true.
Once I've shown you a case for which this is
NOTE CONF
true, okay, let's do one more.
It's so hard.
NOTE CONF
So.
That's.
NOTE CONF
The reason.
Why I.
NOTE CONF
Oh.
My God.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
I.
NOTE CONF
Forgot.
Okay, this is a nice question.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Requires two minutes of thinking.
NOTE CONF
Uh.
Sometimes.
NOTE CONF
Oh, my.
God!
NOTE CONF
Oh!
God!
NOTE CONF
Oh, God!
Oh my God!
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Thank you.
NOTE CONF
So let's have a look.
How many people have voted?
NOTE CONF
Okay, one more minute.
Not a lot of people have voted yet.
NOTE CONF
So when you need to do multiple choice questions of
this type.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So you have either this happens or that happens.
NOTE CONF
Try to think carefully about what the question is asking
because this is really important as we will see in
NOTE CONF
the answer of these questions.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Okay, let's do it.
So what do we think about these results?
NOTE CONF
So who agrees with the most voted item which is
to.
NOTE CONF
You agree?
Why?
NOTE CONF
So first the first one.
Uh, so the first one, by the definition of an
NOTE CONF
integral, it has to be the area that is enclosed
by the graph of f and the both and the
NOTE CONF
two bounded lines.
X equals a and x equals b.
NOTE CONF
And that also means that number two needs to be
correct because as it is an area it has to
NOTE CONF
be a number.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
So I want to do a thought experiment.
Now we said that the integral between A and b
NOTE CONF
of f of x dx is the area bounded by
that two points.
NOTE CONF
What if the area is under the x axis?
Think about this for a moment.
NOTE CONF
What happens if I have a function that looks like
this?
NOTE CONF
And I'm calculating the area between A and B.
What is the sine of that integral?
NOTE CONF
Negative.
Can we have an area which is negative.
NOTE CONF
No.
So what is the problem with the first question?
NOTE CONF
With the first answer.
That that is true.
NOTE CONF
That the integral is the area bounded by the graph
of x and the x axis between a and b
NOTE CONF
only if the function is all above the x axis.
Be careful because this catches out all students.
NOTE CONF
Every time.
When you are asked about an area, you are asked
NOTE CONF
about the measure of something that cannot be negative, right?
The area cannot be negative like the measure of a
NOTE CONF
piece of string cannot be negative.
In the worst cases it's zero.
NOTE CONF
So for example, if I look at my function here
up on the board and I did the calculations, the
NOTE CONF
area I think would come up to zero, right.
Because this at the bottom and at the top, I
NOTE CONF
think if I remember correctly, my example, they are the
same.
NOTE CONF
Is it possible that the area under the curve, this
curve is zero.
NOTE CONF
But our eyes tell you that.
Tell us that this is not possible.
NOTE CONF
So what is the issue here?
That when I ask about the area, I ask about
NOTE CONF
a measure of something that has to be positive.
So to say that the integral is the area is
NOTE CONF
not correct is the mod of the integral.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So it's the absolute value.
Why do I eat?
NOTE CONF
So let's have a look at Finnish to have a
look at this example.
NOTE CONF
Right.
If I wanted to calculate the integral between that two
NOTE CONF
points of my function, the way in which I should
do is this way.
NOTE CONF
The area is the mod of that integral.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Because this tells me that the area is these two
green parts highlighted.
NOTE CONF
So when you are required to say whether something is
something like in this case, is this integral the area
NOTE CONF
of something?
Try to think about what you're being asked.
NOTE CONF
The area by definition cannot be negative.
So obviously the first question was not correct.
NOTE CONF
Right.
And the correct version of the first of the first
NOTE CONF
point there would have been.
Is it true that the the mode of the integral.
NOTE CONF
Between a and b of f of x dx is
equal to the area.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So be careful with that.
NOTE CONF
This catches up.
Also, I don't really know why students find this quite
NOTE CONF
difficult, but they do.
So think about what you have been asked to find.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And this is the calculation for that particular for that
NOTE CONF
particular function.
The second one of course is correct.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So the second one is correct.
NOTE CONF
And that is indeed the definition of integral okay.
So we are happy I said that the integral is
NOTE CONF
is its definition.
So that's fine.
NOTE CONF
What about the third one.
Well the third one cannot be first of all because
NOTE CONF
we have seen that the first one is not correct.
But also because the antiderivative is a function.
NOTE CONF
Yep.
Sorry.
NOTE CONF
Shouldn't be inside the interval.
No.
NOTE CONF
You want to put the mod on the value that
you find, right?
NOTE CONF
Six minus four.
That's two over one six plus modulus minus four.
NOTE CONF
Yes.
Depends on the shape of the function.
NOTE CONF
But you want the mod or the pieces.
So this is a good question.
NOTE CONF
So the situation is a little bit more complicated.
It's a really good question.
NOTE CONF
Thank you for that.
So if my function was to find this area okay.
NOTE CONF
Then I have the mod of that function.
But in the case I want to find this area
NOTE CONF
as I had in the slide.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So say that I wanted to find the integral between
C and b.
NOTE CONF
I would have to split the integral.
The first integral is positive.
NOTE CONF
The second integral is negative and I take the mod
of that.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Thank you.
NOTE CONF
That was really a good question.
So what were we.
NOTE CONF
So the fourth my fourth option.
Is always not correct.
NOTE CONF
So the fourth option we remember is that the function
is continuous.
NOTE CONF
Then the integral doesn't always exist.
And again this is not correct.
NOTE CONF
I'm told the function is continuous.
Obviously I'm really only interested in the integral of if
NOTE CONF
I have a definite integral only interest in the interval
in which I'm.
NOTE CONF
I'm calculating the integral.
If I want to calculate the indefinite integral, then I
NOTE CONF
need it to be continuous everywhere, because otherwise there would
be possible where it doesn't exist.
NOTE CONF
But I am told that this is continuous in A
and B, and therefore only the second option is correct.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So let's see one more question.
NOTE CONF
Thank you very.
Much.
NOTE CONF
Oh that's great.
Oh.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Well.
NOTE CONF
That's.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So this is quite quick.
And the issue here is um naming issue.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So it's our call things.
NOTE CONF
I have here the same function under the integral.
And as an outcome of the integral.
NOTE CONF
And this is of course not what I want to
have.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Because as the way in which this, this equation is
NOTE CONF
written at the moment is telling me that the derivative
of the integral between f of x a and b
NOTE CONF
of f of x dx is f of x, which
is obviously not true.
NOTE CONF
So the way in which I want to write this
equality is by using another symbol.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
In this case I've used capital F for the other
NOTE CONF
function.
The idea here is that you need to check and
NOTE CONF
be careful with the notation, right in that in that
formula, the notation was wrong in the sense that the
NOTE CONF
notation, if you write it correctly, would give you a
false result.
NOTE CONF
And we call f capital f of x the integral
between a or x of f of t and then
NOTE CONF
f of x is f of x.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So be careful how you write mathematics.
Writing mathematics is not easy sometimes, but it's often precise.
NOTE CONF
So.
Question six and as always I'm going to put the
NOTE CONF
slides online I apologise I put the slides for week
one online and I didn't realise that I couldn't see
NOTE CONF
them.
Why wasn't.
NOTE CONF
It true?
Because let me just switch this off.
NOTE CONF
So that the main reason is that I used the
same symbol for the integral between a and b of
NOTE CONF
a for x and the outcome, and so I need
to use a different symbol for the antiderivative.
NOTE CONF
And this explanation.
Yeah there is an explanation in the slides.
NOTE CONF
But I want to go I've got I think two
more questions.
NOTE CONF
So I want to finish before we finish.
But there is a calculation in the slide.
NOTE CONF
Why does he.
Okay, so that's excellent.
NOTE CONF
Somebody that tells me why that is false.
What do we think?
NOTE CONF
Sorry.
Yep.
NOTE CONF
Oh.
Um, f of x and g of x could be
NOTE CONF
different by some constant.
Exactly.
NOTE CONF
So this is exactly the point, right?
F of x and g of x could be different
NOTE CONF
functions.
And that differ by a constant.
NOTE CONF
One could be three x plus three and the other
one could be three x.
NOTE CONF
These are not the same function but the derivatives are
the same.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So be careful again.
NOTE CONF
Just think about what you're looking for.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So shall we do the last one.
Oh.
NOTE CONF
How do you think?
The white.
NOTE CONF
House.
Okay, so we have three minutes left.
NOTE CONF
So let's see.
What happened?
NOTE CONF
Why is this true?
So think about the process of integration.
NOTE CONF
And what is the difference with the process of calculating
the derivative.
NOTE CONF
Why do we think that that's true.
Which it is.
NOTE CONF
Oh thank you.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Um, so.
I did like integration of f of x is equal
NOTE CONF
to a big f of x plus let's say c
a constant one.
NOTE CONF
And then integration of g of x is equal to
a big g of x plus constant two.
NOTE CONF
And then f of x plus constant one has to
be equal to g of x plus constant two.
NOTE CONF
Exactly.
So this is the the nice way of doing it.
NOTE CONF
So you calculate the integral, the g of x and
f of x by having some different concepts.
NOTE CONF
If the integrals of this function need to be the
same, then the constant need to be the same, right?
NOTE CONF
The quick way of of saying it is that these
functions have the same antiderivative, and therefore they need to
NOTE CONF
be the same.
And this should be in your book.
NOTE CONF
So just to kind of plug up this idea that
for two functions, if they have the same derivative, there
NOTE CONF
is no saying whether they are the same function or
not.
NOTE CONF
But if they have the same integral then they are
the same function.
NOTE CONF
And we can show this quite quickly.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So I shall see you Thursday.
And don't forget about the workshops tomorrow.
NOTE CONF
Thank you.